This survey reviewed different variants of shared mobility systems along with their modeling choices
and solution approaches. The papers reviewed covered mobility systems where people share their rides
and mobility systems where people and goods are combined. We presented a set of case studies either
analysing shared mobility system performances or studying their potential impacts on people’s lives and
future transportation systems.
New shared mobility systems for both people and freight transportation have the potential to provide
major societal, economic and environmental benefits. The development of algorithms for planning and
operating such systems is at the heart of the shared mobility concept. This survey highlighted a number
of promising optimization opportunities and challenges that arise when developing new systems to support
shared mobility. Relevant operations research models in this area have also been reviewed. Although
ridesharing is not a new concept, we have seen that the interest in enhancing dynamic ridesharing systems
and developing new systems for matching passengers on-the-fly continues to grow. More research is now
needed on systems that consider trip synchronization and traveler cost aspects, or more generally the quality
of the provided service. One of the latest big trends appears to be research on deploying new autonomous
mobility services. We now need more research on how these new services can operate and how they can
impact future transportation systems, and there is also a need to introduce new models and algorithms
that consider vehicle charging and maintenance operations. The potential integration of passenger and
freight transportation is another promising opportunity that is steadily gaining currency. As such, more
studies on developing realistic models and effcient algorithms that consider different objectives (including
environmental issues) and different sources of uncertainty are also needed, along with new public policies
to regulate this integration. We believe that these challenges and new innovations provide a rich vein of
research opportunities, and we anticipate
